README.md, before:


4TH FEB HW Screen Recording 

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/dc92a79f-4e7d-4a0b-bc76-d97fd500a54f


https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e8ef7b2c-1944-4d37-933a-473933f7d113









ANSWERS TO THE QUESTION OF THE HOMEWORK OD 27TH JAN 2026 BY PROF. POONAM

1. Websites use responsive design to automatically rearrange content to fit the vastly different screen widths and pixel densities of each device.

2. It instructs the mobile browser to match the webpage width to the actual device width instead of zooming out to display a desktop-sized layout.

3.  Mobile browsers default to a wide desktop view (usually 980px) and shrink the entire page to fit the phone screen, making the text microscopic.

4. CSS uses @media queries to constantly measure the browser window's width and apply specific styles only when certain size conditions are met.

5.  The browser instantly switches which CSS rules are active, causing the layout to "snap" into a new structure (like changing from 3 columns to 1).

6. Layouts must adapt not just to screen size, but to the difference between precise mouse clicks on desktops and imprecise finger taps on touchscreens.

7. It stores the data in a dedicated file or database located on your computer's physical hard drive within the browser's user profile folder.

8.  Data persists because localStorage saves to the hard drive (disk), unlike JavaScript variables which live in temporary memory (RAM) and get wiped on reload.

9. Once the HTML, CSS, and JavaScript files are downloaded, the code runs entirely on your local device's processor and does not need a server to function.

10. They save your status instantly to your browser's local storage and sync it to a central cloud database so your progress is saved across all devices.


<img width="1470" height="956" alt="Screenshot 2026-01-08 at 17 24 06" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a0731694-6942-4d97-ac45-291078decfbd" />

 # HTML & CSS Practice Repository

This repository contains my **HTML and CSS practice work** completed as part of assignments and exercises given by **Poonam Ma’am**. It documents my learning journey in web development fundamentals, focusing on clean structure, proper styling, and correct usage of core concepts.

---

## 📌 About the Repository

The purpose of this repository is to:
- Practice **HTML & CSS basics**
- Implement concepts taught in class
- Maintain a structured record of assignments
- Build a strong foundation for future web development projects

All files in this repository are created for **learning and academic purposes**.

---

## 🛠️ Technologies Used

- **HTML5**
  - Semantic elements
  - Forms, tables, lists, links, and images
- **CSS3**
  - Styling and layout
  - Box model (margin, padding, border)
  - Fonts, colors, and alignment
  - Basic layout techniques

---

## 📂 Repository Structure

- `*.html` → HTML files demonstrating page structure and content
- `*.css` → CSS files used for styling and layout
- Practice files based on classwork and homework assignments

Each file focuses on a specific concept taught during lectures.

---

## 🎯 Learning Outcomes

Through this work, I have learned:
- How to structure web pages using HTML
- How to style elements using CSS
- Proper separation of content (HTML) and design (CSS)
- Writing clean and readable code
- Applying classroom concepts in practical examples

---

## 👩‍🏫 Acknowledgment

This work has been completed under the guidance of **Poonam Ma’am**.  
Her assignments and teaching approach helped me understand core web development concepts clearly and effectively.

---

## 🚀 Future Improvements

- Improve design and responsiveness
- Add more structured layouts
- Introduce **JavaScript** for interactivity
- Convert static pages into small projects

---

## 📄 Disclaimer

This repository is intended **only for educational purposes** and reflects my learning progress in HTML and CSS.

---

### ⭐ If you’re reviewing this repository, feedback is always welcome!

Commit message:

Add 5th Feb HW screen recording link
Added link for 5th Feb homework screen recording.

README.md, after:


5TH FEB HW Screen Recording (via drive link as the file was 200mb)
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1cIO2NA60z1hL5vsy7tjLKnXsE-WgdhGl/view?usp=sharing










4TH FEB HW Screen Recording 

https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/dc92a79f-4e7d-4a0b-bc76-d97fd500a54f


https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e8ef7b2c-1944-4d37-933a-473933f7d113









ANSWERS TO THE QUESTION OF THE HOMEWORK OD 27TH JAN 2026 BY PROF. POONAM

1. Websites use responsive design to automatically rearrange content to fit the vastly different screen widths and pixel densities of each device.

2. It instructs the mobile browser to match the webpage width to the actual device width instead of zooming out to display a desktop-sized layout.

3.  Mobile browsers default to a wide desktop view (usually 980px) and shrink the entire page to fit the phone screen, making the text microscopic.

4. CSS uses @media queries to constantly measure the browser window's width and apply specific styles only when certain size conditions are met.

5.  The browser instantly switches which CSS rules are active, causing the layout to "snap" into a new structure (like changing from 3 columns to 1).

6. Layouts must adapt not just to screen size, but to the difference between precise mouse clicks on desktops and imprecise finger taps on touchscreens.

7. It stores the data in a dedicated file or database located on your computer's physical hard drive within the browser's user profile folder.

8.  Data persists because localStorage saves to the hard drive (disk), unlike JavaScript variables which live in temporary memory (RAM) and get wiped on reload.

9. Once the HTML, CSS, and JavaScript files are downloaded, the code runs entirely on your local device's processor and does not need a server to function.

10. They save your status instantly to your browser's local storage and sync it to a central cloud database so your progress is saved across all devices.


<img width="1470" height="956" alt="Screenshot 2026-01-08 at 17 24 06" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a0731694-6942-4d97-ac45-291078decfbd" />

 # HTML & CSS Practice Repository

This repository contains my **HTML and CSS practice work** completed as part of assignments and exercises given by **Poonam Ma’am**. It documents my learning journey in web development fundamentals, focusing on clean structure, proper styling, and correct usage of core concepts.

---

## 📌 About the Repository

The purpose of this repository is to:
- Practice **HTML & CSS basics**
- Implement concepts taught in class
- Maintain a structured record of assignments
- Build a strong foundation for future web development projects

All files in this repository are created for **learning and academic purposes**.

---

## 🛠️ Technologies Used

- **HTML5**
  - Semantic elements
  - Forms, tables, lists, links, and images
- **CSS3**
  - Styling and layout
  - Box model (margin, padding, border)
  - Fonts, colors, and alignment
  - Basic layout techniques

---

## 📂 Repository Structure

- `*.html` → HTML files demonstrating page structure and content
- `*.css` → CSS files used for styling and layout
- Practice files based on classwork and homework assignments

Each file focuses on a specific concept taught during lectures.

---

## 🎯 Learning Outcomes

Through this work, I have learned:
- How to structure web pages using HTML
- How to style elements using CSS
- Proper separation of content (HTML) and design (CSS)
- Writing clean and readable code
- Applying classroom concepts in practical examples

---

## 👩‍🏫 Acknowledgment

This work has been completed under the guidance of **Poonam Ma’am**.  
Her assignments and teaching approach helped me understand core web development concepts clearly and effectively.

---

## 🚀 Future Improvements

- Improve design and responsiveness
- Add more structured layouts
- Introduce **JavaScript** for interactivity
- Convert static pages into small projects

---

## 📄 Disclaimer

This repository is intended **only for educational purposes** and reflects my learning progress in HTML and CSS.

---

### ⭐ If you’re reviewing this repository, feedback is always welcome!
